documentation/guide/OWSGuide.adoc, before:

:imagesdir: ./images
:Author:    ...
:Email:     openwebstart@karakun.com
:Date:      ...
:Revision:  1.1.6

= The Defintive Guide To OpenWebStart

:toc:

== Introduction

-work in progress-

=== What is OpenWebStart?

-work in progress-

== Installation

-work in progress-

== Configuration

#<this documentation is work in progress>#

=== JVM Download Server

OpenWebStart can fetch JVMs and JVM updates from a download server that is specified in the JVM Manager Configuration of the OWS Settings application. The default points to https://download-openwebstart.com/jvms.

==== Setup a Custom Download Server
If you want to setup your own JVM download server you have to prepare downloadable artifacts of your JVMs you want to provide and specify them in a jvms configuration file named "jvms".

The jvms configuration file is located in the root of the download server defines which JVMs are available for download by OpenWebStart from the server.

This file format is json and looks like this:
```
{
    "cacheTimeInMillis":<miliseconds>,
    "runtimes":[
        {
            "version":<JVM version>,
            "vendor":<vendor name>,
            "os":<OS identifier>,
            "href":<url to the download artifact on this download server>
        },

        ... more runtime definitions
}

```

cacheTimeInMillis: The time that needs to be elapsed before a client is allowed to request the server again. Usually the server is accessed once per application startup.


#<this documentation is work in progress>#

Commit message:

add hit for centralized configuration

documentation/guide/OWSGuide.adoc, after:

= The Defintive Guide To OpenWebStart
:imagesdir: ./images
:Author:    ...
:Email:     openwebstart@karakun.com
:Date:      ...
:Revision:  1.1.6
:toc:
:toclevels: 2

== Introduction

-work in progress-

=== What is OpenWebStart?

-work in progress-

== Installation

-work in progress-

== Configuration

#<this documentation is work in progress>#


=== Centralized Configuration

- list all the properties that allows to configure a centralized installation

=== JVM Download Server

OpenWebStart can fetch JVMs and JVM updates from a download server that is specified in the JVM Manager Configuration of the OWS Settings application. The default points to https://download-openwebstart.com/jvms.

==== Setup a Custom Download Server
If you want to setup your own JVM download server you have to prepare downloadable artifacts of your JVMs you want to provide and specify them in a jvms configuration file named "jvms".

The jvms configuration file is located in the root of the download server defines which JVMs are available for download by OpenWebStart from the server.

This file format is json and looks like this:
```
{
    "cacheTimeInMillis":<miliseconds>,
    "runtimes":[
        {
            "version":<JVM version>,
            "vendor":<vendor name>,
            "os":<OS identifier>,
            "href":<url to the download artifact on this download server>
        },

        ... more runtime definitions
}

```

cacheTimeInMillis: The time that needs to be elapsed before a client is allowed to request the server again. Usually the server is accessed once per application startup.


#<this documentation is work in progress>#
